



Network Working Group                                           T. Okubo
Internet-Draft                                                C. Bonnell
Intended status: Standards Track                          DigiCert, Inc.
Expires: 25 April 2024                                           J. Gray
                                                                 Entrust
                                                         23 October 2023


              A Mechanism for X.509 Certificate Discovery
                 draft-lamps-okubo-certdiscovery-latest

Abstract

   This document specifies a method to discover a secondary X.509
   certificate associated with an X.509 certificate to enable efficient
   multi-certificate handling in protocols.  The objective is threefold:
   to enhance cryptographic agility, improve operational availability,
   and accommodate multi-key/certificate usage.  The proposed method
   aims to maximize compatibility with existing systems and is designed
   to be legacy-friendly, making it suitable for environments with a mix
   of legacy and new implementations.  It includes mechanisms to provide
   information about the target certificate's signature algorithm,
   public key algorithm and the location of the secondary X.509
   certificate, empowering relying parties to make informed decisions on
   whether or not to fetch the secondary certificate.

   The primary motivation for this method is to address the limitations
   of traditional certificate management approaches, which often lack
   flexibility, scalability, and seamless update capabilities.  By
   leveraging this mechanism, subscribers can achieve cryptographic
   agility by facilitating the transition between different algorithms
   or X.509 certificate types.  Operational redundancy is enhanced by
   enabling the use of backup certificates and minimizing the impact of
   primary certificate expiration or CA infrastructure failures.

   The approach ensures backward compatibility with existing systems and
   leverages established mechanisms, such as the subjectInfoAccess
   extension, to enable seamless integration.  It does not focus on
   identity assurance between the primary and secondary certificates,
   deferring such considerations to complementary mechanisms.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://tomofumiokubo.github.io/certificatediscovery/draft-lamps-
   okubo-certdiscovery.html.  Status information for this document may
   be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-lamps-okubo-
   certdiscovery/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/tomofumiokubo/certificatediscovery.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 25 April 2024.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Security Considerations
   4.  IANA Considerations
   5.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   TODO Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

4.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Authors' Addresses

   T. Okubo
   DigiCert, Inc.
   Email: tomofumi.okubo+ietf@gmail.com


   C. Bonnell
   DigiCert, Inc.
   Email: corey.bonnell@digicert.com


   J. Gray
   Entrust
   Email: john.gray@entrust.com
